guides/onboarding/developer.md, before:

New developer!
==============

Hello new IDF developer! Congrats: you've landed on one of the greatest jobs in the world!
Now it's time to get you up to speed with all the things you need to know about your role at the IDF and your day-to-day work as a developer.

Before you start, please ensure that you have a mentor (onboarding buddy) assigned to you to make your onboarding process smooth and easy.

Please also share all of your ideas & thoughts with regards to our onboarding document with your mentor - we want to maintain it in perfect condition and your fresh look on the process is very valuable to us.


## Plan
 1. Update your Slack account: upload your photo, fill out personal info: Full name, role, time zone, Skype account.
 1. Understand [company goals and who we are](/company/README.md).
 1. Know our [expectations about you and your work](../expectations.md) and [expectations for video calls](../../roles/developer/expectations__videoCalls.md).
 1. Learn our [Philosophy](../philosophy.md).
 1. Know our [Collaboration tools](../collaboration-tools.md).
 1. Have an overview on our platform.
     1. Learn the application domain: [IDF platform](/platform/README.md) (non-developers guide).
 1. Get closer to coding: setup your [working environment](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/environment/first-run/README.md) (private repository link). It's a time-consuming step. While your tools are being downloaded or installed, you can read/do the next step.
 1. Never stop learning (Are you full-stack? - please open both links ☀️): 
     - Literature/subscriptions [for Backend developers](../../library/backend/literature-for-backend-developer.md)
     - Literature/subscriptions [for Frontend developers](../../library/frontend/literature-for-frontend-developer.md)
 1. Workflow:
    1. [Scrum](../scrum/scrum.md).
    1. [GitFlow](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/workflows/gitflow.md).
 1. Coding (finally 🎉)
    1. [File-naming conventions](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/code/file-naming-conventions.md)
    1. [Contributing standards](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md)
    1. Architecture (Are you full-stack? - You know what to do 😊)
        - [Backend](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/code/backend/architecture.md)
        - [Frontend](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/code/frontend/architecture.md)
 1. [Setup your IDE](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/environment/IDE/README.md) for the project.

Happy reading/hacking!


## What's next?
Are you ready for new challenges? Great!

Your mentor should prepare a few simple tasks for your smooth onboarding to the codebase.
You will be assigned to your first issue, make your first contribution to our codebase, create your first PR - a lot of exciting stuff!

Please contact to your mentor and inform them that you are ready for new challenges.

May the Force be with you!


🦄

Commit message:

#3 Update the plan on new developer guide

guides/onboarding/developer.md, after:

New developer!
==============

Hello new IDF developer! Congrats: you've landed on one of the greatest jobs in the world!
Now it's time to get you up to speed with all the things you need to know about your role at the IDF and your day-to-day work as a developer.

Before you start, please ensure that you have a mentor (onboarding buddy) assigned to you to make your onboarding process smooth and easy.

Please also share all of your ideas & thoughts with regards to our onboarding document with your mentor - we want to maintain it in perfect condition and your fresh look on the process is very valuable to us.


## Plan
 1. Update your Slack account: upload your photo, fill out personal info: Full name, role, time zone, Skype account.
 1. Understand [company goals and who we are](/company/README.md).
 1. Know our [expectations from you and your work](../expectations.md).
 1. Learn our [philosophy](../philosophy.md).
 1. Know our [collaboration tools](../collaboration-tools.md).
 1. Get closer to coding: setup your [working environment](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/environment/first-run/README.md) (private repository link). It's a time-consuming step. While your tools are being downloaded or installed, you can read/do the next step.
 1. Never stop learning (Are you full-stack? Then please open both links ☀️): 
     - Literature/subscriptions [for Backend developers](../../library/backend/literature.md)
     - Literature/subscriptions [for Frontend developers](../../library/frontend/literature.md)
 1. Go through our guides:
    1. [Scrum](../scrum/README.md).
    1. [GitFlow](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/workflows/gitflow.md).
 1. Coding (finally 🎉)
    1. [File-naming conventions](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/code/file-naming-conventions.md)
    1. [Contributing standards](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md)
    1. Architecture (Are you full-stack? You know what to do 😊)
        - [Backend](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/code/backend/architecture.md)
        - [Frontend](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/code/frontend/architecture.md)
 1. [Setup your IDE](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/environment/IDE/README.md) for the project.

Happy reading/hacking!


## What's next?
Are you ready for new challenges? Great!

Your mentor should prepare a few simple tasks for your smooth onboarding to the codebase.
You will be assigned to your first issue, make your first contribution to our codebase, create your first PR - a lot of exciting stuff!

Please contact to your mentor and inform them that you are ready for new challenges.

May the Force be with you!


🦄
