guides/onboarding/onboarding__forge.md, before:

# Create a Laravel Forge account

We use Laravel Forge to provision and deploy our applications.
You need to create an individual account later to be added by one of the
development team members to our development circle. Thus, you'll be able
to access our servers and sites.

- Go to [https://forge.laravel.com/auth/register](https://forge.laravel.com/auth/register)
  and register with your IDF email address. Don't fill out billing but click on "Just Joining A Circle?".
  <img width="729" alt="screen shot 2018-10-09 at 20 58 09" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/832544/46689488-aed80f00-cc08-11e8-8ae3-a7efed74c836.png">
- After you created the account, ask one of the development team members to add you to our "Development Team" circle.
- Accept the circle invitation by going to [https://forge.laravel.com/circles](https://forge.laravel.com/circles).
  <img width="1052" alt="screen shot 2018-10-09 at 20 59 42" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/832544/46689490-aed80f00-cc08-11e8-8b9b-78285ebed5d1.png">
- Then go to [https://forge.laravel.com/user/profile#/authentication](https://forge.laravel.com/user/profile#/authentication)
  and follow instructions to enable Two Factor Authentication (2FA).
  <img width="1041" alt="screen shot 2018-10-09 at 21 11 37" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/832544/46689491-aed80f00-cc08-11e8-880b-5388a9b283f3.png">

Commit message:

Add missing step into forge onboarding doc

guides/onboarding/onboarding__forge.md, after:

# Create a Laravel Forge account

We use Laravel Forge to provision and deploy our applications.
You need to create an individual account later to be added by one of the
development team members to our development circle. Thus, you'll be able
to access our servers and sites.

- Go to [https://forge.laravel.com/auth/register](https://forge.laravel.com/auth/register)
  and register with your IDF email address. Don't fill out billing but click on "Just Joining A Circle?".
  <img width="729" alt="screen shot 2018-10-09 at 20 58 09" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/832544/46689488-aed80f00-cc08-11e8-8ae3-a7efed74c836.png">
- By default Forge will ask you to connect to a source control and server provider. You can ignore this by clicking "Skip For Now" button under "Just Joining A Circle?" section.
- After you created the account, ask one of the development team members to add you to our "Development Team" circle.
- Accept the circle invitation by going to [https://forge.laravel.com/circles](https://forge.laravel.com/circles).
  <img width="1052" alt="screen shot 2018-10-09 at 20 59 42" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/832544/46689490-aed80f00-cc08-11e8-8b9b-78285ebed5d1.png">
- Then go to [https://forge.laravel.com/user/profile#/authentication](https://forge.laravel.com/user/profile#/authentication)
  and follow instructions to enable Two Factor Authentication (2FA).
  <img width="1041" alt="screen shot 2018-10-09 at 21 11 37" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/832544/46689491-aed80f00-cc08-11e8-880b-5388a9b283f3.png">
