guides/onboarding/onboarding.md, before:

Onboarding
==========

Hello, new IDF developer! Congrats: You've landed on one of the greatest jobs in the world!
Now it's time to get you up to speed with all the things you need to know about your role at the IDF
and your day-to-day work as a developer.

Before you start, please ensure that you have a mentor (onboarding buddy) assigned to you
to make your onboarding process smooth and easy.

Please also share all of your ideas & thoughts with regards to our onboarding document with your mentor.
We want to maintain it in perfect condition, and your fresh look at the process is precious to us.


## Plan
 1. Begin by getting a company email address.
 1. Know our [collaboration tools](../collaboration-tools.md).
 1. Update your Slack account by uploading a photo and filling out personal info: Full name, role, timezone, Skype name.
 1. Understand [company goals and who we are](/company/README.md).
 1. Know our [expectations from you and your work](../expectations.md).
 1. Learn our [philosophy](../philosophy.md).
 1. Get closer to coding: Setup your [working environment](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/environment/first-run/README.md) (private repository link).
 It's a time-consuming step. While your tools are being downloaded or installed, you can read/do the next step.
 1. Never stop learning 📖 Go through our library and create a plan on acquiring every bit of knowledge there.
 Once you have a plan, please discuss it with your mentor. (Are you full-stack? Then please open both links ☀️): 
     - Literature/subscriptions [for back-end developers](../../library/back-end/literature.md)
     - Literature/subscriptions [for front-end developers](../../library/front-end/literature.md)
 1. Go through our guides:
    1. [Create a Laravel Forge account](onboarding__forge.md).
    1. [Scrum](../scrum/README.md)
    1. [GitFlow](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/workflows/gitflow.md)
 1. Coding (finally 🎉)
    1. [File-naming conventions](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/code/naming-conventions.md)
    1. [Contributing standards](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md)
    1. [Platform glossary](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/glossary.md)
    1. Architecture (Are you full-stack? You know what to do 😊)
        - [Backend](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/code/backend/architecture.md)
        - [Frontend](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/code/frontend/architecture.md)
 1. [Setup your IDE](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/environment/IDE/README.md)
 for the project.

Happy reading/hacking!


## What's next?
Are you ready for new challenges? Great!

Your mentor should prepare a few simple tasks for your smooth onboarding to the codebase.
You will be assigned to your first issue, make your first contribution to our codebase, create your first PR — a lot of exciting stuff!

Please contact your mentor and inform them that you are ready for new challenges.

May the Force be with you!


## Provide feedback and present your progress

In a few weeks, you'll have a chance to look back at your progress within the IDF.
The whole development team will be very excited to get your general feedback 
(apart from your continuous talks with your mentor) and learn your progress. What you can share:

- Coding: What have you finished and deployed to production that is now used by hundreds of thousands of people?
- Learning: What is your progress on consuming our library? How did they change you?
- Domain: What have you learned about the IDF and our platform?
How can you help improve the most critical parts of our platform?


🦄

Commit message:

#8 Add onboarding plan for culture course

guides/onboarding/onboarding.md, after:

Onboarding
==========

Hello, new IDF developer! Congrats: You've landed on one of the greatest jobs in the world!
Now it's time to get you up to speed with all the things you need to know about your role at the IDF
and your day-to-day work as a developer.

Before you start, please ensure that you have a mentor (onboarding buddy) assigned to you
to make your onboarding process smooth and easy.

Please also share all of your ideas & thoughts with regards to our onboarding document with your mentor.
We want to maintain it in perfect condition, and your fresh look at the process is precious to us.


## Plan
 1. Begin by getting a company email address.
 1. Know our [collaboration tools](../collaboration-tools.md).
 1. Update your Slack account by uploading a photo and filling out personal info: Full name, role, timezone, Skype name.
 1. Understand [company goals and who we are](/company/README.md).
 1. Know our [expectations from you and your work](../expectations.md).
 1. Learn our [philosophy](../philosophy.md).
 1. Get closer to coding: Setup your [working environment](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/environment/first-run/README.md) (private repository link).
 It's a time-consuming step. While your tools are being downloaded or installed, you can read/do the next step.
 1. Never stop learning 📖 Go through our library and create a plan on acquiring every bit of knowledge there.
 Once you have a plan, please discuss it with your mentor. (Are you full-stack? Then please open both links ☀️): 
     - Literature/subscriptions [for back-end developers](../../library/back-end/literature.md)
     - Literature/subscriptions [for front-end developers](../../library/front-end/literature.md)
 1. We have an amazing course on IDF's company culture! Ping @madssoegaard to create a plan to take the course.
 1. Go through our guides:
    1. [Create a Laravel Forge account](onboarding__forge.md).
    1. [Scrum](../scrum/README.md)
    1. [GitFlow](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/workflows/gitflow.md)
 1. Coding (finally 🎉)
    1. [File-naming conventions](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/code/naming-conventions.md)
    1. [Contributing standards](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md)
    1. [Platform glossary](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/glossary.md)
    1. Architecture (Are you full-stack? You know what to do 😊)
        - [Backend](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/code/backend/architecture.md)
        - [Frontend](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/code/frontend/architecture.md)
 1. [Setup your IDE](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/environment/IDE/README.md)
 for the project.

Happy reading/hacking!


## What's next?
Are you ready for new challenges? Great!

Your mentor should prepare a few simple tasks for your smooth onboarding to the codebase.
You will be assigned to your first issue, make your first contribution to our codebase, create your first PR — a lot of exciting stuff!

Please contact your mentor and inform them that you are ready for new challenges.

May the Force be with you!


## Provide feedback and present your progress

In a few weeks, you'll have a chance to look back at your progress within the IDF.
The whole development team will be very excited to get your general feedback 
(apart from your continuous talks with your mentor) and learn your progress. What you can share:

- Coding: What have you finished and deployed to production that is now used by hundreds of thousands of people?
- Learning: What is your progress on consuming our library? How did they change you?
- Domain: What have you learned about the IDF and our platform?
How can you help improve the most critical parts of our platform?


🦄
