guides/onboarding/onboarding--mentorGuide.md, before:

Mentoring on Onboarding
=======================

## About mentoring
 Every new team-member should have a mentor for smooth onboarding process. Mentor should work in the [almost] same timezone as the new team member.
 
 Your main work as a mentor is to help your mentee not to lose track, accumulate his feedback and transform it into actions like:
 - Update documentation
 - Create issue (e.g. `Make dev env works with latest version of VirtualBox`)
 - Make a proposal to optimize onboarding process
 - etc. 


## Expectations and duties
It’s not the job of a mentor to ~teach~, although you might end up doing a little bit of that. Your role is to **guide** and inspire with your enthusiasm (and don’t lose a great talent).

So while there’s an element of teaching to mentorship, the skills a mentor needs are different to those of a teacher.
You need to be an attentive listener, and you need to have enough practical experience to be able to give your mentee the right advice at the right time.

**Set expectations**: Communicate your expectations in a simple and direct manner.
Clarify expected roles, processes and outcomes.
Ensure your mentee understands your expectations and feels motivated to fill them. 


## Plan
### First day
 1. Make mentor's availability hours clear for the new team member and try to maximize them especially for the first working week.
 1. Ensure that your mentee has read all onboarding documents.
 1. Ensure that your mentee has all accounts/permissions for our and 3rd party services (see [Tools and Services checklist](#checklist-for-tools-and-services)).
 1. Ensure that your mentee has [properly installed developer environment](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/environment/first-run/README.md).
 1. Arrange end-of-day meetings with your mentee with a specified agenda to get maximum feedback. The meeting should happen at the end of each day during the first week.
 Why: It will help your mentee understand if they are doing things at the right pace and focusing on the correct tasks, as well as receive clear instructions, advice and constructive criticism to help them improve.
 1. Start changing code: Prepare 3-6 tasks for smooth entry into the project (e.g. start from something very simple to train GitFlow, then fix very small bug, learn how to use our error logging system, etc.).

### First week
 1. Ensure that your mentee has a plan to read developer and general literature and materials from our shared folders (50/50 mix of general/developer literature).
 1. Ask for a summary feedback for the first week.

### First month
 1. Ensure that you got maximum feedback from your mentee and transformed it into actions.

### In a month: finish mentoring
**Evaluate developer onboarding process**: Now you need to evaluate the developer onboarding process to make sure that everything is up to scratch.

When evaluating the process, here are some example questions you could answer:
 1. Do we make our new hires feel welcome?
 1. Do we inspire pride?
 1. Do we connect them with the big picture?
 1. Do we show them how much they matter?
 1. Are we offloading as much information as we can into our shared folders?
 1. Do we make it easy for new hires to get the information they need?
 1. Do we make it easy for new hires to tell us how they’re doing? And how we’re doing?
 1. Do we have an effective mentoring program?


## Checklist for Tools and Services
This is a list of tools and services that a new member should have access to:

 - [GitHub](https://github.com): Issue tracker and source code repository. Ensure that the new developer attached to `devs` team.
 - [Gmail](https://gmail.com): Corporate email box.
 - [Sync.com](https://sync.com): Cloud service to share materials, literature, media, etc. Ensure that the new developer has access to all directories that he needs: designs, literature (both: general and developers), etc.
 - [Slack](https://interaction-design.slack.com): Our main communication tool. Ensure that the new developer is attached to `Developers` slack team/user-group.
 - [LastPass](https://www.lastpass.com/): Credentials management tool: store and share credentials.
 - [Laravel Forge](https://forge.laravel.com): Provision and deployment service for our servers & sites.
 - [Digital Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com): Our server provider.
 - [Newrelic](https://newrelic.com/): Log errors and monitor application performance (get shared credentials from credential management tool).
 - [Codeship](https://codeship.com/): Continuous integration tool (get shared credentials from credential management tool).
 - [GTmetrix](https://gtmetrix.com/): Analyze web page's speed performance (get shared credentials from credential management tool).
 - [Zeplin](https://zeplin.io/): Share designs and its assets between designer and developers.
 - Optional: [Google analytics](https://analytics.google.com): Analytics service that tracks and reports website traffic.
 - Optional: [Google search console](https://www.google.com/webmasters/tools): Monitor Google Search results data.


🦄

Commit message:

Add examples of first tasks

guides/onboarding/onboarding--mentorGuide.md, after:

Mentoring on Onboarding
=======================

## About mentoring
 Every new team-member should have a mentor for smooth onboarding process. Mentor should work in the [almost] same timezone as the new team member.
 
 Your main work as a mentor is to help your mentee not to lose track, accumulate his feedback and transform it into actions like:
 - Update documentation
 - Create issue (e.g. `Make dev env works with latest version of VirtualBox`)
 - Make a proposal to optimize onboarding process
 - etc. 


## Expectations and duties
It’s not the job of a mentor to ~teach~, although you might end up doing a little bit of that. Your role is to **guide** and inspire with your enthusiasm (and don’t lose a great talent).

So while there’s an element of teaching to mentorship, the skills a mentor needs are different to those of a teacher.
You need to be an attentive listener, and you need to have enough practical experience to be able to give your mentee the right advice at the right time.

**Set expectations**: Communicate your expectations in a simple and direct manner.
Clarify expected roles, processes and outcomes.
Ensure your mentee understands your expectations and feels motivated to fill them. 


## Plan
### First day
 1. Make mentor's availability hours clear for the new team member and try to maximize them especially for the first working week.
 1. Ensure that your mentee has read all onboarding documents.
 1. Ensure that your mentee has all accounts/permissions for our and 3rd party services (see [Tools and Services checklist](#checklist-for-tools-and-services)).
 1. Ensure that your mentee has [properly installed developer environment](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IDF-web/blob/develop/docs/environment/first-run/README.md).
 1. Arrange end-of-day meetings with your mentee with a specified agenda to get maximum feedback. The meeting should happen at the end of each day during the first week.
 Why: It will help your mentee understand if they are doing things at the right pace and focusing on the correct tasks, as well as receive clear instructions, advice and constructive criticism to help them improve.
 1. Start changing code: Prepare 3-10 tasks for smooth entry into the project. Examples:
    1. Write tests for feature X (the goal is to introduce feature X, introduce out tools and workflows (GitHub, git, CI))
    1. Pickup and fix any bug from our automated but-report systems (Newrelic, Bugsnag, etc.) (goal: introduce tools, fix a bug)
    1. Review a Pull Request (goal: introduce our Pull Reequest flow and a new piece of code).

### First week
 1. Ensure that your mentee has a plan to read developer and general literature and materials from our shared folders (50/50 mix of general/developer literature).
 1. Ask for a summary feedback for the first week.

### First month
 1. Ensure that you got maximum feedback from your mentee and transformed it into actions.

### In a month: finish mentoring
**Evaluate developer onboarding process**: Now you need to evaluate the developer onboarding process to make sure that everything is up to scratch.

When evaluating the process, here are some example questions you could answer:
 1. Do we make our new hires feel welcome?
 1. Do we inspire pride?
 1. Do we connect them with the big picture?
 1. Do we show them how much they matter?
 1. Are we offloading as much information as we can into our shared folders?
 1. Do we make it easy for new hires to get the information they need?
 1. Do we make it easy for new hires to tell us how they’re doing? And how we’re doing?
 1. Do we have an effective mentoring program?


## Checklist for Tools and Services
This is a list of tools and services that a new member should have access to:

 - [GitHub](https://github.com): Issue tracker and source code repository. Ensure that the new developer attached to `devs` team.
 - [Gmail](https://gmail.com): Corporate email box.
 - [Sync.com](https://sync.com): Cloud service to share materials, literature, media, etc. Ensure that the new developer has access to all directories that he needs: designs, literature (both: general and developers), etc.
 - [Slack](https://interaction-design.slack.com): Our main communication tool. Ensure that the new developer is attached to `Developers` slack team/user-group.
 - [LastPass](https://www.lastpass.com/): Credentials management tool: store and share credentials.
 - [Laravel Forge](https://forge.laravel.com): Provision and deployment service for our servers & sites.
 - [Digital Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com): Our server provider.
 - [Newrelic](https://newrelic.com/): Log errors and monitor application performance (get shared credentials from credential management tool).
 - [Codeship](https://codeship.com/): Continuous integration tool (get shared credentials from credential management tool).
 - [GTmetrix](https://gtmetrix.com/): Analyze web page's speed performance (get shared credentials from credential management tool).
 - [Zeplin](https://zeplin.io/): Share designs and its assets between designer and developers.
 - Optional: [Google analytics](https://analytics.google.com): Analytics service that tracks and reports website traffic.
 - Optional: [Google search console](https://www.google.com/webmasters/tools): Monitor Google Search results data.


🦄
