development/guides/onboarding/onboarding--domain-knowledge.md, before:

# How to get domain knowledge

We’ve developed a few onboarding activities to give you a much deeper understanding of our domain. Understanding our domain,
i.e. the platform and its features FROM OUR USERS’ PERSPECTIVE (i.e. domain knowledge) is paramount to both understanding our codebase and writing awesome code. Great code has a small “conceptual distance” to the domain. In other words, it minimizes cognitive complexity enormously when variable naming, method naming, database table naming and likewise are named “closely” to the the names of the concepts the users use.

Therefore, you should carry out the following activities in a thorough manner. Don’t worry if you can’t remember all of what you
see and learn after you’ve done the activities. As long as you do the activities thoroughly, your brain will still remember lots of
things, and in the future you will get that feeling of “hmm... I remember seeing something that’s related to that...” and then you will
know where to go look for the information. So it’s much like constructing a “map” in your mind.

## Read docs from `/docs/domain`

In our main repository we have [🔒 `/docs/domain/`](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IxDF-web/tree/develop/docs/domain) directory with README.md file for every system/module we have on our application.
Such `README.md` files provide a brief overview of the system and usually contains links to other docs with deeper technical details.
During onboarding you need to read `README.md` files for every system.

## Test email notifications

Go to the notification control panel on our staging/test sites. On that page, you will see information on how to test an email notification.
Please be **absolutely sure** you're not on production server but on a **staging/test site**. Ask your mentor for the URL to the test site
and the password.

Doing this activity can feel a bit grinding perhaps. But rest assured that it will pay off in the long run. It will make your work in
the codebase considerably easier in the long run.

Commit message:

#20459 Enhance domain-related docs (formatting/wording)

development/guides/onboarding/onboarding--domain-knowledge.md, after:

# How to get domain knowledge

We’ve developed a few onboarding activities to give you a much deeper understanding
of our domain. Understanding our domain, i.e. the platform and its features from
our **users’ perspective** (i.e. domain knowledge) is paramount to both understanding
our codebase and writing awesome code. Great code has a **“small conceptual distance”**
to the domain. In other words, it brings cognitive ease when variables, methods, database tables,
models, services, operations, and likewise come directly from domain-specific vocabulary.

Don't expect to grasp/understand/remember everything you read during your onboarding.
Look at it as a map which you can refer to down the road.

## Read docs from `/docs/domain`

In our main repository we have [🔒 `/docs/domain/`](https://github.com/InteractionDesignFoundation/IxDF-web/tree/develop/docs/domain) directory with README.md file for every system/module we have on our application.
Such `README.md` files provide a brief overview of the system and usually contains links to other docs with deeper technical details.
During onboarding you need to read `README.md` files for every system.

## Test email notifications

Go to the [notification control panel](https://develop.information-architecture.org/admin/notifications)
on our staging/test sites (You can find the basic-auth credentials in lastpass).
On that page, you will see information on how to test an email notification.

Please be **absolutely sure** you're not on production server but on a **staging/test site**.

Doing this activity can feel a bit grinding, but rest assured that it will pay off
in the long run. It will make your work in the codebase considerably easier.
