guides/expectations.md, before:

IDF Developer: Role expectations
================================

Since we are a small team of seniors - you can find here our expectations for seniors only.


# Any developer
 1. A developer understands and accepts [company culture](/company/README.md#culture).
 1. A developer regularly communicate with the rest of the dev team (daily video calls, text messaging).


## Senior developer
 This list extends our expectations from any developer (see prev. section) for senior developer.

 1. **Seriousness firstly means "responsibility"**. Responsibility for your decisions, solutions, code, and communication with team.
 1. A senior developer is [able to carry a message to Garcia](https://www.ucg.org/beyond-today/the-lesson-of-a-message-to-garcia): they **can take initiative** when carrying out a difficult assignment.
 1. A senior developer **has experience**; because they have the ability to learn from their mistakes.
 1. A senior developer **helps their team get better every day**.
 1. A senior developer **finds and fixes the root causes of the problem** and not just the symptoms.
 1. A senior developer can **autonomously deliver working software**.
 1. A senior developer understands that their job is to **provide solutions to problems**, not to write code.
 1. A senior developer **knows his tools**: debugging, SSH, basic bash, etc.
 1. A senior developer **knows how to choose a right tool**.


### Senior backend developer
 This list extends our expectations from senior developer (see prev. section) for senior backend developer.

 1. Broad and extensive knowledge of the software development process and its technologies.
 1. Strong knowledge of the primary programming language to use in IDF.
 1. Knowledge of design patterns.


### Senior frontend developer
 This list extends our expectations from senior developer (see prev. section) for senior frontend developer.

 1. Strong knowledge of HTML technologies and at least one modern JS framework and understand how it works.
 1. Middle-level knowledge of at least one different JS framework OR strong knowledge of design patterns.



## Links
 1. [So You Want To Be a Senior Developer?](https://css-tricks.com/want-senior-developer/)
 1. [The Role of a Senior Developer](http://mattbriggs.net/blog/2015/06/01/the-role-of-a-senior-developer/)


🦄

Commit message:

#3 Move video call expectations into expectations doc

guides/expectations.md, after:

Expectations from Developers
============================

Since we are a small team of seniors - you can find here our expectations for seniors only.


# Any developer
 1. A developer understands and accepts [company culture](/company/README.md#culture).
 1. A developer regularly communicate with the rest of the dev team (daily video calls, text messaging).


## Senior developer
 This list extends our expectations from any developer (see prev. section) for senior developer.

 1. **Seriousness firstly means "responsibility"**. Responsibility for your decisions, solutions, code, and communication with team.
 1. A senior developer is [able to carry a message to Garcia](https://www.ucg.org/beyond-today/the-lesson-of-a-message-to-garcia): they **can take initiative** when carrying out a difficult assignment.
 1. A senior developer **has experience**; because they have the ability to learn from their mistakes.
 1. A senior developer **helps their team get better every day**.
 1. A senior developer **finds and fixes the root causes of the problem** and not just the symptoms.
 1. A senior developer can **autonomously deliver working software**.
 1. A senior developer understands that their job is to **provide solutions to problems**, not to write code.
 1. A senior developer **knows his tools**: debugging, SSH, basic bash, etc.
 1. A senior developer **knows how to choose a right tool**.


### Senior backend developer
 This list extends our expectations from senior developer (see prev. section) for senior backend developer.

 1. Broad and extensive knowledge of the software development process and its technologies.
 1. Strong knowledge of the primary programming language to use in IDF.
 1. Knowledge of design patterns.


### Senior frontend developer
 This list extends our expectations from senior developer (see prev. section) for senior frontend developer.

 1. Strong knowledge of HTML technologies and at least one modern JS framework and understand how it works.
 1. Middle-level knowledge of at least one different JS framework OR strong knowledge of design patterns.

# Specific expectations for Video Calls

Since we work remotely, video calls are essential for us to communicate. Here are what we expect from every IDF developer while on (video) calls:

1. Always turn on video -- unless the bandwidth suffers, at which point one or more people switch to audio-only.
2. Be mindful of background noise in your end. If you are in a noisy place, that noise will get transmitted to everyone and will interrupt the team's concentration. In this case, you simply mute and unmute your microphone whenever you are speaking/not speaking.
3. Make eye contact and physically be there so the developer who's talking can feel your presence and not feel like talking to some computer screen that doesn't have the ability to respond.
4. Pay attention to other team members; they may ask for help OR you may notice that they need help. Especially the daily calls are a chance for all of us to be on the same page AND help others to save time & sanity so that we operate as efficiently as possible.



## Links
 1. [So You Want To Be a Senior Developer?](https://css-tricks.com/want-senior-developer/)
 1. [The Role of a Senior Developer](http://mattbriggs.net/blog/2015/06/01/the-role-of-a-senior-developer/)


🦄
